So, guys, now let us discuss next how virtual addresses are mapped to physical addresses, so that
is discussed virtual addresses to physical address mapping.
So on the right hand side, you can see a diagram which represents a process in execution.
So we already know that process, what trilateral space is, split it up into various segments.
The Bottommost is the code segment, followed by a data segment followed by Heap's segment.
And then you have an empty space which is reserved for growth and then followed by a stack segment which
grows downwards.
Now, let us suppose that during the course of execution of a process, your process requests 20 bites
of memory using my lock.
So let us suppose that mallock return some address.
So if the address that is indicated by BTR points to address location said this.
Right.
So this address will be some address in Heap's segment of the process, which will address the space.
So you can see in the diagram on the right hand side that Ahepe segment has expanded by 20 bytes and
the starting at the end of the story Bytes is the address, which is written by mallock.
So the content of the speech out of trouble will be disastrous.
No, suppose your program invokes a right opposition to this memory location.
So let's say that you are simply writing string to this address.
So as soon as you perform any write or read our position on this virtual address, what happens on the
operating system that this virtual address is converted into corresponding physical address by Amamou
Amamou stands for Memory Management Unit.
And the concept of what what's your address to physical address is called paging.
So you can see that is a component which resides in the operating system.
And for every virtual address that is generated by running process, Amamou, Comverse, this virtual
atlas and corresponding physical address, not by definition physical address is nothing, but it is
a location of a bite on a physical memory, not your physical memory is nothing, but it is the realm.
So it is the actual physical hardware memory which is installed in your system.
And every bit of this physical memory has a physical address which is constant and it never changes.
So constitutes the virtual address that is generated by running process into its corresponding physical
address.
And the right operation is actually performed on this physical address.
So it means that the data is actually written into the physical memory, what that virtual memory do
not stored any data.
At the end of the day, the data will be written in the physical memory at the address, which is mapped
from the corresponding virtual address.
So never, ever say that is written in the virtual memory, nor that is wrong.
Any data always resides in the physical memory.
Which memory is a concept?
What your memory is not a real memory or it is not an actual piece of hardware that can store your data.
At the end of the day, the data needs to be stored in the physical memory.
So there's a slide at a very high level.
We have discussed the role of memory in the preceding slides or lectures.
We will discuss that.
How does translation from Watson address to physical address actually happens?
For now, just choose a random physical address and a random virtual address.
So actual data or content is written on the physical memory.
Virtual memory do not contain any data.
So same goes with any address which belongs to the process stack memory or any address which belongs
to the data segment of the process.
In fact, any virtual address which belongs to the virtual space of the process undergoes through the
paging and maps to an actual physical address on the main memory.
So in this example, I have taken an address which belongs to the heap segment of the process.
But the mapping of which will address to physical address applies to any what's your address, which
belongs to any portion of the process which will address the space.
This virtual address could be an address which belongs to the Heap segment of the process.
This virtual address could be an address which belong to the data.
Segment of the process are called Segment of the Process.
So now let's try to visualize.
The relationship between the virtual and physical address, with the help of an analogy, consider virtual
address as keys so you have some keys and consider virtual address that belongs to the process.
Does space as some sort of keys.
Now, if you have keys that there has to be lockers in which you can keep your data items.
So consider lockers as actual storage on physical memory will process data is actually capped and consider
the memory management unit as a mechanism which maps that which key belongs to which locker.
So again and again, I'm emphasizing what memory do not contain any data.
It is the physical memory which eventually stores the data, which is just a mechanism which takes you
to the actual location in the physical memory with the help of paging.
So this clearly explain the relationship between virtual address, the physical address and the Beijing,
which acts as a bridge between virtual address and physical address and facilitate mapping from virtual
address to physical address.